# Using Artificial Intelligence to play Connect Four

## Abstract
In this project, an artificial intelligence agent uses several adversarial search algorithms with similarities to solve connect four. A minimax algorithm and negamax algorithm were used, with added features such as alpha-beta pruning, prioritizing certain moves, always taking the win if available, and always preventing the opponent from winning by blocking when necessary. These algorithms were implemented using C++, and two attributes determined their strength: time and accuracy. Implementing alpha-beta pruning and prioritizing the inner columns over the outer columns improve the time. Accuracy was improved by specifying the evaluation heuristic of each move. The search's depth improved the time, which allowed more branches to be viewed, thus improving accuracy. Each branch was evaluated using a heuristic that counts all two, three, and four groups for each player. If the opponent has four in a row, the loss case is returned. Otherwise, the grouping size is weighed, and the heuristic is the difference between the computer and opponents' number and size of groups. In testing, this algorithm proved to work the best, resulting in the greatest number of wins over humans. In competition, this heuristic was not perfect but led to a tie for second place. Finding the best relationship between time vs. accuracy, evaluation vs. depth, and simplicity vs. complexity was crucial, and certain matchups exploited the areas where the agent sacrificed. The negamax agent is far from perfect but can hold its ground reasonably well and came away with a few wins. More testing, adjustments, and some overall changes in approach would likely improve the algorithm moving forward.

## Continued Work
Notes about computer hardware impacting performance and ability
